Electromagnetic waves are like the waves in a swimming pool Just like when you splash your friend in the water so too are electromagnetic waves the result of their surrounding environment In this case however electromagnetic waves are the result of the oscillating movement of the electric and magnetic fields around us. An electric and magnetic field is the spatial presence that electricity and magnets create.N.B. a swimming pool, although, isn’t a perfect analogy to electromagnetic waves as, although both carry energy in some form, a swimming pool requires a medium, namely water, to move contents around, whereas electromagnetic waves can operate in environments without any mediumPlanck, in order to quantify electromagnetic waves, suggested that electromagnetic waves came in quanta. Quanta are like the mailmen which carry literal packets of energy. In fact, a good definition of quanta is that it is the minimum amount of a physical entity. So, for that matter, one could say to the grocery store person, “could I please have a quanta of corn please? And, any reasonable grocery clerk might wonder how much of quanta of corn you might need after all he or she has probably sold quantas of corn in different sizes. Same applies to energy in the sense a quanta of electromagnetic waves can come in different energies. But what could explain why some quanta carry huge amounts of energy and why some had small amounts of energy? He proposed that the amount of energy of an object was the result of the frequency of that quanta’s electromagnetic wave.But saying that energy was the composite result of many packets of energy opened a new box. For Einstein, in 1905, it meant to him that light, as a form of energy, is the result of quanta of energy, which he called photons. But, scientists had previously established that light was a electromagnetic wavelength — could light energy also be made up of elemental particles called photons? A good definition of a photon is an elementary particle which carries a quanta of electromagnetic radiation, such as a light.Understanding that the idea of quantum leaps was a valid perspective, Heisenberg suggested that instead of these electrons taking concentric leaps forward or backward from the center, it had to be that electrons could disappear and reappear. Electrons no longer appeared to take steps away, and instead stirred away.