Consider photons. These are the particles that make up light and radiation. They’re tiny packets of energy. Centuries ago, scientists believed light traveled as a stream of particles, like a flow of tiny bright balls. Then, 200 years ago, experiments demonstrated that light could travel as waves. A hundred years after that, newer experiments showed light could sometimes act like waves, and sometimes act like particles, called photons. Those findings caused a lot of confusion. And arguments. And headaches.Wave or particle? Neither or both? Some scientists even offered a compromise, using the word “wavicle.” How scientists answer the question will depend on how they try to measure photons. It’s possible to set up experiments where photons behave like particles, and others where they behave like waves. But it’s impossible to measure them as waves and particles at the same time. 
At the quantum scale, things can appear as particles or waves — and exist in more than one place at once.This is one of the bizarre ideas that pops out of quantum theory. Photons don’t change. So how scientists study them shouldn’t matter. They shouldn’t only see a particle when they look for particles, and only see waves when they look for waves.Quantum physics will play an important role in future technologies — in computers, for example. Ordinary computers run calculations using trillions of switches built into microchips. Those switches are either “on” or “off.” A quantum computer, however, uses atoms or subatomic particles for its calculations. Because such a particle can be more than one thing at the same time — at least until it’s measured — it may be “on” or “off” or somewhere in-between. That means quantum computers can run many calculations at the same time. They have the potential to be thousands of times faster than today’s fastest machines.
IBM and Google, two major technology companies, are already developing superfast quantum computers. IBM even allows people outside the company to run experiments on its quantum computer. 