The development of the special theory of relativity consists of two main steps, namely, the adaptation of the space-time utf8mb4_unicode_cimetricsutf8mb4_unicode_ci to Maxwell's electro-dynamics, and an adaptation of the rest of physics to that altered space-time utf8mb4_unicode_cimetrics.utf8mb4_unicode_ci The first of these processes yields the relativity of simultaneity, the influence of motion on measuring-rods and clocks, a modification of kinematics, and in particular a new theorem of addition of velocities. The second process supplies us with a modification of Newton's law of motion for large velocities, together with information of fundamental importance on the nature of inertial mass.It was found that inertia is not a fundamental property of matter, nor, indeed, an irreducible magnitude, but a property of energy. If an amount of energy be given to a body, the inertial mass of the body increases by an amount E/c2, where c is the velocity of light in vacuo. On the other hand, a body of mass m is to be regarded as a store of energy of magnitude mc2.Furthermore, it was soon found impossible to link up the science of gravitation with the special theory of relativity in a natural manner. In this connection I was struck by the fact that the force of gravitation possesses a fundamental property, which distinguishes it from electro-magnetic forces. All bodies fall in a gravitational field with the same acceleration, or—what is only another formulation of the same fact—the gravitational and inertial masses of a body are numerically equal to each other. This numerical equality suggests identity in character. Can gravitation and inertia be identical? This question leads directly to the General Theory of Relativity. Is it not possible for me to regard the earth as free from rotation, if I conceive of the centrifugal force, which acts on all bodies at rest relatively to the earth, as being a utf8mb4_unicode_cirealutf8mb4_unicode_ci field of gravitation, or part of such a field? If this idea can be carried out, then we shall have proved in very truth the identity of gravitation and inertia. For the same property which is regarded as inertia from the point of view of a system not taking part in the rotation can be interpreted as gravitation when considered with respect to a system that shares the rotation. According to Newton, this interpretation is impossible, because by Newton's law the centrifugal field cannot be regarded as being produced by matter, and because in Newton's theory there is no place for a utf8mb4_unicode_cirealutf8mb4_unicode_ci field of the utf8mb4_unicode_ciKoriolis-fieldutf8mb4_unicode_ci type. But perhaps Newton's law of field could be replaced by another that fits in with the field which holds with respect to a utf8mb4_unicode_cirotatingutf8mb4_unicode_ci system of co-ordinates? My conviction of the identity of inertial and gravitational mass aroused within me the feeling of absolute confidence in the correctness of this interpretation. In this connection I gained encouragement from the following idea. We are familiar with the utf8mb4_unicode_ciapparentutf8mb4_unicode_ci fields which are valid relatively to systems of co-ordinates possessing arbitrary motion with respect to an inertial system. With the aid of these special fields we should be able to study the law which is satisfied in general by gravitational fields. In this connection we shall have to take account of the fact that the ponderable masses will be the determining factor in producing the field, or, according to the fundamental result of the special theory of relativity, the energy density—a magnitude having the transformational character of a tensor.